The Haunting is a 1999 American horror film directed by Jan de Bont, and starring Liam Neeson, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Owen Wilson, and Lili Taylor, with Marian Seldes, Bruce Dern, Todd Field, and Virginia Madsen appearing in supporting roles. Its plot follows a group of people who gather at a sprawling estate in western Massachusetts for an apparent volunteer study on insomnia, only to find themselves plagued by paranormal events connected to the home's grim history. Based on the 1959 novel The Haunting of Hill House by Shirley Jackson, it is the second feature film adaptation of the source material after Robert Wise's 1963 film adaptation of the same name.
Development for The Haunting originally began as a collaboration between filmmaker Steven Spielberg and writer Stephen King, who together began writing a new adaptation of Jackson's novel, largely inspired by Wise's 1963 film version. After creative differences, the project was aborted, with King retooling his screenplay to form the 2002 miniseries Rose Red. Spielberg meanwhile commissioned a new screenplay for the project, written by David Self, to be produced under Spielberg's studio, DreamWorks Pictures. Filming of The Haunting began in the fall of 1998, with some location shoots occurring in England at Harlaxton Manor and Belvoir Castle, though the majority of the film was shot in specially-crafted sets in Los Angeles by esteemed Argentine production designer Eugenio Zanetti.
The Haunting premiered theatrically in North America in July 1999. Though met by largely negative reviews from film critics, it was a financial success, grossing $180 million worldwide.
In archaic English law, a cape was a judicial writ concerning a plea of lands and tenements; so called, as most writs are, from the word which carried the chief intention of the writ.
The writ was divided into cape magnum, or the grand cape, and cape parvum, or the petit cape. While they were alike in their effect, as to taking hold of immovable things, they differed in the following circumstances: first, in that the cape magnum lay before, and the cape parvum after; second, cape magnum summoned the defendant to answer to the default, in addition to answering to the plaintiff, while cape parvum only summoned the defendant to answer to the default. It might have been called petit cape, not because of small force, but because it was contained in few words.
Cape magnum was defined in the Old Natura Brevium as follows:
"Where a Man hath brought a Precipe quod reddet of a Thing that touches Plea of Land, and the Tenant makes default at the Day to him given in the original Writ; then this Writ shall be for the King to take the Land into his Hands : and if the Tenant come not at the Day given him by the Writ, he loses his land."
Cape parvum was defined was thus defined, Ibid.
"Where the Tenant is summon'd in Plea of Land, and comes at the Summons, and his Appearance is recorded; and at the Day given him, prays the View; and having it granted, makes default : then shall this Writ issue for the King", etc.
Cape ad valentiam, a species of cape magnum so called from the end to which it tends, was thus described,
"Where I am impleaded of Lands, and I vouch to warrant another, against whom the Summons ad Warrantandum hath been awarded, and the Sheriff comes not at the Day given; then, if the Defendant recover against me, I shall have a Writ against the Vouchee; and shall recover so much in value of the Lands of the Vouchee, if he has so much : otherwise, I shall have Execution of such Lands and Tenements as descend to him in Fee; or, if he purchase afterwards, I shall have a Re-summons against him : And if he can say nothing, I shall recover the Value."